# chemodiv-litter-model

**Code Repository for [Manuscript Title]**  
- _Authors: **Arjun Chakrawal**, Luciana Chavez Rodrigez,  Stefano Manzoni, Satish Karra, Odeta Qafoku, and Emily Graham_
- _Submitted to: [Journal Name]_  

---

## Overview

This repository contains all code and supporting data for the manuscript investigating the relationship between chemical diversity and litter decomposition dynamics via a mechanistic modeling framework. The primary goal is to simulate and analyze how molecular composition influences decomposition patterns across experimental treatments.

---

## Repository Structure
```sh
chemodiv-litter-model/
│
├── figs/ # Output figures generated by the model│
├── tables/ # Data tables used in analysis or generated as output
├── .gitignore # Specifies untracked files (e.g., model_fit/)
├── .gitattributes # Git metadata
├── LICENSE # Open-source license (e.g., MIT)
├── README.md # This documentation│
├── Figures.ipynb # Notebook for post-processing and figure generation
├── main.ipynb # Core modeling notebook defining system dynamics
├── molecular_mixing_model.ipynb # Core modeling notebook defining processing of NMR data and *ceates processed_data.xlsx*
├── run_local_fitting.py # Script for data model fitting
├── sol_ivp_.py # ODE system definition using scipy.integrate.solve_ivp
├── helper_function_MMM.py # Utility functions for the Molecular Mixing Model

```


---

## Setup Instructions

Follow the steps below to set up the repository and generate the figures used in the manuscript.

### 1. Download and extract the repository

- Go to the GitHub page for this repository.
- Click **Code** > **Download ZIP**.
- Extract the ZIP file to a directory of your choice (e.g., `C:\Users\YourName\Documents\litter_decay`).

### 2. Open a terminal

- On **Windows**, open **Anaconda Prompt**, **Command Prompt**, or **PowerShell**.
- On **macOS/Linux**, open your system terminal.

Navigate to the extracted project directory:
```sh
cd path/to/litter_decay
```

### 3. Environment Setup
We recommend creating a clean Python environment using [Mambaforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge#mambaforge) or Miniconda. Create an environment named litter_decay from requirements.txt:
```sh
mamba create -n litter_decay --file requirements.txt -y
```
### 4. Activate the environment

```sh
mamba activate litter_decay
```
### 5.  Launch JupyterLab

```sh
jupyter lab
```
JupyterLab will open in your default browser. You can now run the notebooks and generate the manuscript figures.

---

## 📄 License

This code is shared under the [MIT License](LICENSE). For academic or commercial use, please cite the corresponding paper.

---
## ✏️ Citation

- Coming soon
---
## 📫 Contact

**Arjun Chakrawal** arjun.chakrawal@pnnl.gov 